Moves the workbook contributor section to GitHub. (#189)
InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourceLearningPath: workbook/04-contributor.asciidoc

== Video:  InnerSource Contributor

=== SEGMENT: Becoming an InnerSource Contributor

TIP:
More than one answer may be correct in some questions.

==== Question 1.  What is a benefit of becoming a contributor to an InnerSource project?

. I can make sure others have to follow my suggestions to improve the project.
. The host team will maintain the features I add on behalf of my team.
. I can shape the solution to better fit my team’s needs.

> . I can help to shape all aspects of the project beyond the code itself (for example, GitHub branches and merges, tests, documentation).

Reviewer: I'm not sure, GitHub merges are generally something that contributors would do. Though there are examples in the open source world of contributors and host members to share review load, write access in my experience is still reserved for the host.

https://blogs.apache.org/comdev/entry/an-approach-to-community-building ... check section "review then commit"

Author: Maybe clarify by "merge to master" or removing the merges?
```suggestion
. I can help to shape all aspects of the project beyond the code itself (for example, GitHub reviewing, bug triage, tests, documentation).
```

Reviewer 2: LGTM

===== Correct answers 3 and 4

Why 1 is incorrect: Open communities are not a dictatorship. As a contributor, you are part of a community helping the solution to grow and thrive.  This may involve compromise at times, but will pay longer term benefits to you and the community. 

> Why 2 is incorrect: In a shared solution you are invited to help improve the code, which includes bug fixes. Ownership in shared solutions should be seen as stewardship to keep the solution long term healthy.

Author: It could be read as that once you assume a "least-possible-effort" position, I agree. No-one ever saw those in the corporate space. ;)
Do you have an idea for a commit suggestion to bring this a little closer to the a "do protect the commons" position?

==== Question 3.  What is a productive assumption for a contributor to make when joining an InnerSource project?

. I need to make sure to communicate my intent when adding or changing the project.
. I need to make sure my code serves the hosting teams goals.
. If the hosting team is in a bind to meet their deadlines, I have to spend time to code for them.
. I should work only on features needed by my team.

===== Correct answer: 1

Why 1 is correct: If your contribution isn’t understood by the host team or the community at large, so they may reverse your hard work or make other changes that weaken the value of your contribution. Open and early communication with the community and the hosting team will help you to drive successful contributions.

Why 2 is incorrect: You should make sure that your goals do not conflict with those of the hosting team, but beyond that you can still promote your own team’s goals.

> Why 3 is incorrect: Your work on another team’s project reflects your own team’s needs, but you are not working for the other team. If the hosting team (or any community participant) is in a bind, you and your management might offer help as a gesture to benefit the whole company., However, it is not your task to make up for the time or staffing shortcomings at the hosting team.

Reviewer: I like this explanation that balances the option to  help against having to help!

Why 4 is incorrect: Working on other features of a project, or doing background work such as reorganizing code or documentation, may indirectly contribute to your team’s success, so it is legitimate for you to invest time on those things.
 

=== SEGMENT: The Contributor Ethos

TIP:
More than one answer may be correct in some questions.

==== Question 1.  Which approach can drive success in your contribution to an InnerSource project?

. My team’s work is crucial for the company’s success, so my team’s voice has more weight in a shared solution community than others.

> . As I a guest to the project, I am entitled to quick and comprehensive answers to my questions from host team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. As I am a guest to the project, I am entitled to quick and comprehensive answers to my questions from host team.
```

===== Correct answer:  3

Why 1 is incorrect: Even if your team may play a more central role in the company, you are still the guest when interacting with an InnerSource project.  Ultimate accountability for decisions made about the project lies with its trusted committers.

Why 2 is incorrect: There is nothing wrong with asking good questions, and they should be responded to in a timely fashion. However, you are a guest and need to respect the time and effort of others in the community. Therefore, make sure to read and understand all available documentation before asking questions, and be prepared for answers from any educated project member, not just host team leaders. This helps your status in the community and avoids randomization.

Why 3 is correct: InnerSource stresses the creation of documentation, both as background to the work (for instance, README.md and CONTRIBUTING.md, and to justify individual decisions and code changes. The reason for a culture of documentation is to provide you, as a contributor, with the background you need to fit your change successfully into the project.

> Why 4 is incorrect: Getting your contribution accepted is an achievement to be celebrated. However, your involvement does not end there. You should plan to be available at a minimum to fulfill a 30-day warranty on your changes (and their impact), or even better: stay close to the community and help out with additional contributions. 

Reviewer: Maybe add a link to https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/master/30-day-warranty.md

Author: Thought so too once creating the pull request. Only felt like a quick ```sed```&go though at that point.

```suggestion
Why 4 is incorrect: Getting your contribution accepted is an achievement to be celebrated.
However, your involvement does not end there. 
You should plan to be available at a minimum to fulfil a [30-day warranty](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/master/30-day-warranty.md) on your changes (and their impact), or even better: stay close to the community and help out with additional contributions. 
```

== Video:  InnerSource Contributor

=== SEGMENT: Becoming an InnerSource Contributor

TIP:
More than one answer may be correct in some questions.

==== Question 1.  What is a benefit of becoming a contributor to an InnerSource project?

. I can make sure others have to follow my suggestions to improve the project.
. The host team will maintain the features I add on behalf of my team.
. I can shape the solution to better fit my team’s needs.
. I can help to shape all aspects of the project beyond the code itself (for example, GitHub reviewing, bug triage, tests, documentation).

===== Correct answers 3 and 4

Why 1 is incorrect: Open communities are not a dictatorship. As a contributor, you are part of a community helping the solution to grow and thrive.  This may involve compromise at times, but will pay longer term benefits to you and the community. 

> Why 2 is incorrect: In a shared solution you are invited to help improve the code, which includes bug fixes. Ownership in shared solutions should be seen as stewardship to keep the solution long term healthy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why 2 is incorrect: Reducing the amount of work needed to get a customer feature implemented is one of the main reasons for InnerSource. It's correct that contributing changes back to host projects means that the host team becomes aware of the change and will take it into consideration in any refactorings that they are making going forward. That way the work that you as a contributor have to do to adapt to new versions is being reduced significantly. Still that does not imply that on acceptance the host team will be the only people responsible for making sure the change you submitted works as intended: The 30 day warranty pattern provides a formal means to defining how long contributors are responsible for fixing issues in the modification they submitted. In addition in practice contributors often move closer to the host team and provide their expertise going forward.

In a shared solution you are invited to help improve the code, which includes bug fixes. Ownership in shared solutions should be seen as stewardship to keep the solution long term healthy.
```

Author: This looks good to me.
